hey this is pressure Locker you visit a
shrine that has three temples in a
magical pond before you visit a temple
you have to swim in the pond the path
you take involves swimming in the pond
to get to the first temple swimming in
the pond to get to the second temple and
then swimming in the pond to get to the
third temple each time you swim in the
pond the number of flowers you are
carrying magically triples you place an
equal number of flowers at each temple
you visit and at the very end you have
no flowers remaining the problem is what
is the least number of flowers you could
have started with to be specific you
start with a positive number of flowers
and you place a whole number of flowers
at each temple can you figure it out
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution we will solve the problem
algebraically imagine you start with X
flowers and you leave Y flowers at each
temple let's keep track of how many
flowers you have at each part of the
trip you start out with X flowers when
you swim in the pond
the number of flowers you have triples
to 3x you then leave Y flowers at the
first temple which leaves you with 3x
minus y flowers you then swim in the
pond which triples the number of flowers
you have to 9x minus 3y you'll leave Y
flowers at the second temple which
leaves you with 9x minus 4y flowers you
then swim in the pond once more which
triples the number of flowers you have
to 27 X minus 12 y you leave Y flowers
at the third temple and you have 27 X
minus 13 Y flowers
of course at the very end you have no
flowers this leads to the equation 27 X
minus 13 y equals 0 so x equals 13
divided by 27 times y we need the number
of flowers you place to be a whole
number the least value for y would be 27
which means that you started with 13
flowers in fact this is the solution we
will verify this numerically so if we
start out with 13 flowers we swim in the
pond and that triples to 39 we then
leave 27 flowers at the first temple
which leaves us with 12 flowers this
triples to be 36 we leave 27 flowers at
the second temple which leaves us with 9
flowers this triples when we swim in the
pond to be 27 we then leave those 27
flowers at the final temple which leaves
us with 0 flowers so that's the solution
of this problem now interestingly enough
the kind of mathematics involved in this
problem can actually be applied to
financial products we can reinterpret
the problem as an example of an annuity
which is a financial instrument that has
equal payments at regular intervals the
number of flowers we place at each
temple why flowers could be considered
having equal payments at regular
intervals
imagine we take a loan out for X dollars
every year we pay off y dollars of the
loan but each year the amount of debt
that we have remaining triples we have
an interest rate of 200 percent if we
had this kind of problem in each temple
we imagine visiting one temple in a year
this would exactly lead us to the same
algebraic problem of paying off the debt
in three years in which we have an equal
payment of Y every year and the
outstanding debt triples at the very end
we would want our debt to be zero the
mathematics of annuities can be
generalized so let's imagine we didn't
know anything about this problem and we
just approached it as an annuity here's
how it would work in terms of time
intervals we start out at the first
interval where we take a loan of x
dollars after one year our loan will
increase by an outstanding loan rate an
interest rate of I percent so we
multiply x times 1 plus I percent after
the first year we make a fixed payment
of Y dollars which decreases the balance
of our outstanding loan by Y dollars now
comes the part where in the second year
we have an interest on the amount of
loan that's remaining so we multiply
these amounts by 1 plus I this is like
dipping into the pond and having
everything magically grow up by 1 plus I
so we multiplied 1 plus I times both
terms and this is what we end up with we
then pay an amount Y and we subtract
that on the outstanding loan which then
gets increased by 1 plus I in the next
period so this pattern can continue and
we can imagine paying this off until n
years we end up with the formula that
involves a geometric series
we then have one final payment of Y
which then changes the subscript on the
geometric series and we now want our
loan to be paid off in n years so we
need this to be equal to zero we can
simplify this formula by using the sum
of a geometric series up to n minus 1
this is the formula that we end up with
and this can be used for any annuity
where you take out X dollars you have an
interest rate of I and you have n
periods in the magical pond we started
out we had three different temples so we
had three different periods and between
each temple we have to swim in the pond
and the number of flowers we had tripled
which is an interest rate of 200% we can
substitute these values into our new 'ti
formula and notice we end up with
exactly the same equation of 27 X minus
13 y equals zero this is an alternate
way of solving the problem and it's a
way to see how this problem relates to
financial products thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch around my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
soccer and if you like this video please
check out my books their links in the
video description